+++
draft = false
title = 'Creating Portfolio Tutorial'
summary = '📍 Remote <br> How I made this website'
weight = 3
+++

Curious how I customized my website? 
I created the easiest step by step guide for beginners to get started!

1. Install Homebrew
2. Install Hugo
    Run these commands!
    - * /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)”
    - brew install hugo
3. Run hugo to deploy website
    - Follow this website:
        - https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/
    - Use VSC to open folder
    - Now you should have some base code to work with. Feel free to pick a theme online that suits you!
4. Transfer to Github
    - Create empty repository on github (make sure to have completely empty repo or it will throw conflict errors)
    - Run these commands in terminal to initialize repository and set url to push to github
        - git init
        - git add .
        - git commit -m "Initial commit"
        - git remote add origin <link to the empty repository on github> 
        - git branch -M main 
        - git push -u origin main
5. Configure GitHub Pages 
    - On Github go to 'Settings' > 'Pages'
    - In the "Source" section:
        - Select /docs
    - Now this should work!
        - https://<your-username>.github.io/<repository-name>/
6. Adding a domain [optional]
    - Buy a domain (I used Cloudflare, any DNS works)
    - add records for DNS management
    - Add the sections for 'CNAME, AAAA, A'
        - Follow this guide for more info
        * https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/managing-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site

7. Connecting domain to GitHub Pages
    - add this line to config.toml or config.yml of your repo
        - publishDir = "docs"
    - You also need a CNAME file with the website domain
    - rebuild the site in terminal with this command:
        - hugo
    - run these commands to push changes
        - git add . 
        - git commit -m "Generate site in docs folder"
        - git push
    - add custom domain and test it
    - Enable HTTPS

8. Visit < domain name website > to confirm the site works.


Common mistakes: <br>
Github hosts the pages thru reading from the docs/ repository <br>
Therefore, we tell Hugo that we want to publish the autogenerated files into docs <br>
However, it removes the CNAME file in docs everytime we push a new change that requires us to regenerate the docs file <br>
Therefore, we need to add CNAME back everytime we want to push a new change if we regenerated the docs file! <br>